First cut of SNOW docs (#1546)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/approvals/service-now/index.md

---
title: Service Now Integration
description: Approvals, approvals, approvals
position: 10
---
```warning
The ServiceNow Integration feature is only available as an EAP for version 2022.2.5556 or later and it requires a feature license to be able to use it.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::
```

## Overview

The Octopus Deploy/ServiceNow integration allows users to block the execution of specifically configured deployments unless they have a corresponding approved ServiceNow **Change Request** (CR).

> For configured project and environment combinations, Octopus Deploy will 

Reviewer: This sentence appears to end abruptly :smile:

Author: huh, looks like I fell asleep

Author: I can't remember what I was going to say so I just removed the line

To enable this behavior, both systems must be configured before deployments can be managed.

> | Project | Environment Change Controlled | Environment **Not** Change Controlled| 

Reviewer 2: Instead of a matrix, what if the table show the 3 possible combinations and the expected outcome.

| Project | Environment | Outcome |
| -- | -- |  -- |
| Change controlled | Change controlled | **Approval required for deployment** |
| _Not_ change controlled | Change controlled | No approval required |
| Change controlled | _Not_ change controlled | No approval required |

Author: I have used this matrix as it readable without having to jump through hoops

| --------|--|-- |
| Change Controlled | _Approval Required_  | No Approval Required | 
| **Not** Change Controlled | No Approval Required | No Approval Required |

## Getting started

> The Service Now integration requires Octopus 2022.2.5556 or later, and an Octopus license with the Service Now Integration feature enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Service Now integration requires **Octopus 2022.2.5556** or later and an Octopus license with the Service Now Integration feature enabled.
```

To get started:
1. Configure ServiceNow
1. Obtain a ServiceNow feature license for your Octopus instance 

> 1. Configure a connection from Octopus to ServiceNow

Reviewer 3: In the past, when writing Test docs, I tried to "scope" the statement, so people could drill into it (but maybe this is a higher level)
* In Octopus, configure a ServiceNow Connection using parameters from step 1
* In Octopus, configure projects and environments to specify change-controlled deployments

Equally - call back to Mark - docs these days are a lot more human-centric with active voice (Rather than my history in science writeups!)

1. Configure which deployments require an approved CR

### Configuring Service Now

:::hint
The instructions in this section will require a ServiceNow Administrator.
:::

> The Octopus Deploy / ServiceNow integration requires security configuration in your target ServiceNow instance. 

Reviewer 3: does this need an introduction?
Two piece of work must be configured in ServiceNow:
1. Create ServiceAccount for use by Octopus
2. Create an OAuth endpoint ...
Why do we need the OAuth? Is it safer, or is it simply mandatory?

Author: 🤷 

does this need more explanation given https://octopusdeploy.slack.com/archives/C0K9DNQG5/p1653433973150239

Follow the [ServiceNow OAuth documentation](https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/sandiego-platform-administration/page/administer/security/task/t_SettingUpOAuth.html) to configure an OAuth endpoint for Octopus to use for authentication. Take note of the OAuth client id and client secret from the configuration.

Next, the integration will require a user account on ServiceNow. The recommendation is to create a user account specifically for Octopus.

> To create a new ServiceNow user, follow the ServiceNow [Create a user](https://docs.servicenow.com/en-US/bundle/sandiego-platform-administration/page/administer/users-and-groups/task/t_CreateAUser.html) documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new ServiceNow user, follow the [ServiceNow Create a user](https://docs.servicenow.com/en-US/bundle/sandiego-platform-administration/page/administer/users-and-groups/task/t_CreateAUser.html) documentation. 
```

Ensure that the new user has `Web service access only` checked. 
Take note of the password assigned or generated for this user.

### Licensing

For the ServiceNow approval checks to be performed as part of the deployment process, an appropriate Octopus license must be configured in your Octopus instance.

> A ServiceNow enabled Octopus license must be requested from Octopus directly, and cannot be managed through the usual self-service process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A ServiceNow enabled Octopus license must be requested from Octopus directly, and cannot be managed through the self-service process.
```

Reviewer 2: Should we include the link to register for EAP here? The registration form is the entry point for the customers to ask for a licence. See [SNOW EAP program](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U1HA9GQxqcU9tAZIkRAUSjQGX0SC1EpbJg7_tos8d84/edit#bookmark=id.y9docr7ru9ke)

Author: added link to EAP registration

> A ServiceNow enabled Octopus license must be requested from Octopus directly, and cannot be managed through the usual self-service process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A ServiceNow enabled Octopus license must be requested from Octopus directly, and cannot be managed through the usual self-service process. To request a licence register for the [ServiceNow Early Access Program](https://octopusdeploy.typeform.com/servicenow-eap)
```

> Once you have received your feature-enabled license, you can install it by navigating **{**{Configuration, License}}**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have received your feature-enabled license, you can install it by navigating to **{{Configuration, License}}**. 
```

> An enabled license will include a node similar to the below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An enabled license will include a block similar to the below:
```

```xml
<Features>
  <ServiceNowIntegration>
    <ValidTo>...</ValidTo>
  </ServiceNowIntegration>
</Features>
```

### Configuring ServiceNow connections

:::hint
The instructions in this section will require an Octopus Deploy manager or administrator
:::

To connect your Octopus Deploy instance to ServiceNow, navigate to  **{{Configuration, Settings, ServiceNow Integration}}**.

Check the **Enabled** option
![](images/servicenow-connections-1.png)

Click on **ADD CONNECTION** and fill out the details.
The ServiceNow Base Url should be the root URL and include the protocol. 

> ![](images/servicenow-connections-2.png)

Reviewer: Can the images be switched from Dark to Light mode?

Author: cool, didn't think of that, I will redo all of them. Thanks

Author: fixed

Press **TEST** to ensure that the connection details are working. 

Multiple ServiceNow connections are supported, however, each project can only use one ServiceNow connection.

## Configuring deployments

To enforce a deployment to require an approved CR, the **Change Controlled** setting needs to be enabled in **both** the project and the environment it is being deployed to.

### Setting up projects for CR approval

To enable a project to enforce a requirement for an approved CR, navigate to the project and then **{{Settings,General}}**.
Check the **Change-controlled** setting and select your ServiceNow connection in the **Service Now Connection** setting, and then press **SAVE**.

![](images/servicenow-project-settings.png)

### Standard Change Templates

> By default, the CR creation will result in a `Normal` change. Setting the **Change Template Name** setting under **Project Settings** to the name of a valid, approved **Change Template** will result in a `Standard` change being created based upon the change template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the Deployments resulting in CR creation will produce in a `Normal` change. Setting the **Change Template Name** setting under **Project Settings** to the name of a valid, approved **Change Template** will instead created a `Standard` change being created based upon the change template.
```

### Supplying the CR number to a deployment

> If you add a variable to your project called `Octopus.ServiceNow.Change.Number`, then a CR will not be created and only the supplied CR number will be used to check for approval. This variable can also be [Scoped](/docs/projects/variables/index.md#scoping-variables) or configured as a [Prompted variable](/docs/projects/variables/prompted-variables.md) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you add a variable to your project called `Octopus.ServiceNow.Change.Number`, then a CR will not be created and only the supplied CR number will be used to check for approval. This variable can also be [Scoped](/docs/projects/variables/index.md#scoping-variables) or configured as a [Prompted variable](/docs/projects/variables/prompted-variables.md).
```

> If you add a variable to your project called `Octopus.ServiceNow.Change.Number`, then a CR will not be created and only the supplied CR number will be used to check for approval. This variable can also be [Scoped](/docs/projects/variables/index.md#scoping-variables) or configured as a [Prompted variable](/docs/projects/variables/prompted-variables.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you add a variable to your project named `Octopus.ServiceNow.Change.Number`, then a CR will not be created, and instead the supplied CR number will be used during the approval check. This variable can also be [Scoped](/docs/projects/variables/index.md#scoping-variables) or configured as a [Prompted variable](/docs/projects/variables/prompted-variables.md).
```

### Setting up environments for CR approval

To enable an environment to enforce a requirement for an approved CR, navigate to **{{Infrastructure,Environments}}**, edit the environment via the overflow menu and check the **Change Controlled** setting, and then press **SAVE**.

![](images/servicenow-environment-settings.png)

## How it works

Deployments where both the project and environment have **Change Controlled** enabled, will query ServiceNow for an approved CR before execution can begin.

When a **Change Controlled** deployment is evaluated for approval, the following checks are performed:
- If a specific CR number is available, via a variable named `Octopus.ServiceNow.Change.Number`, then only this CR will be checked.

> - If there is an existing CR with the specifically formatted **Short Description** available. See [Title text matching](#title-text-matching) for more information, then this CR will be evaluated.

Reviewer 3: what about re-deployment?

Author: updated with a note re: redeployment

- Create a new CR. 
  - This will be a `Normal` change, or a `Standard` change if the project has a `Change Template Name` set.
  - A CR created by Octopus will have a **Short Description** in the format outlined in [Title text matching](#title-text-matching).

> Once a CR has been found, the deployment will only proceed if the **State** of the CR is `Implement`. If the **State** is either `New`, `Assess`, `Authorize`, or `Scheduled` the deployment will wait. Any other **State** will cause the deployment task to fail.

Reviewer 3: This effectively says we're using the default change-lifecycle, but is it worth stating explicitly?

Author: yeah, that might be a good idea to call out.
